Note: This guide is not including the numerous things you can do with your hardware, software and bios to optimise for a better experience, this is all strictly for Terraria.

Settings for Extremely LOW END PC:
Resolution - Highest and reduce if needed, fullscreen on.
Parallax - 0
Frame Skip - On or Subtle (Read Explonation)
Lighting - Retro
Quality - Low
Background - Off
Blood and Gore - Off
Miner's Wobble - On
Windy Environment- Off

Mods for Performance
If you are playing on TmodLoader you can better your performance by using any decent lag remover mod, these usually remove many particles and kill far away projectiles.
A good one i found is called "Clientside Lag Prevention" so you can give this a try, after you load into your world with it, go into config and configure it for your needs.

Mods for Quality - These are all the mods that i recommend and are fully stable together from my testing, if you find any more feel free to expirement with them. None of these mods change game balance or mechanics
Terraria Ambience, Improved Movement Visuals, CoolerItemVisualEffect, BetterBlending, FancyLighting, Lights And Shadow


POTENTIAL IMPROVEMENT: I recommend all those who are not using a resource pack for different/better looks to use Optimizerraria.
This resourse pack will not change quality but all sprites are optimized to be more lightweight.
To install this, head to this page https://steamcommunity.com/workshop/filedetails/?id=2447428824 or search for it in the steam workshop, and click "Subscribe".
After which you will find it in - Terraria Main Menu > Workshop > Use Resource Packs > Enable Optimizerraria

Settings for MAXIMUM Quality:
Resolution - Highest and fullscreen on. 
Parallax - 100 
Frame Skip - Off
Lighting - Color
Quality - High
Background - On
Blood and Gore - On
Miner's Wobble - Enabled
Windy Environment - Enabled

Resource Packs:
There are many resource packs you can find in the workshop or what i did is watched youtube videos showcasing different texture packs and picked the one i like most.
These will usually massively change textures for the better and the different providing a unique and new experience.
I personally use "Calamity Texture Pack" when playing calamity, "Custom Fonts (Cabin)"


Explonations:

Resolution - Your highest monitor resolution will look best, reducing this is the worst case scenario, only proceed if all other optimizations don't fully fix your issue. 
Fullscreen will improve performance over borderless Window.
Parallax: Shouldn't impact fps on any non-extreme-copium hardware, in an extreme case set to 0%. Otherwise 100% will look best.
Frame Skip: If you can't get a consistent 60fps set it to off or subtle, make sure to expirement, it can cause slow motion effect. 
From my testing it seems that turning frame skip Off will uncap the game from 60fps and cap it to your monitors refresh rate. This is brilliant for anyone with a monitor over 60hz
Lighting: 
Color - Highest performance requirement best quality
White - Medium to high performance requirement 2nd best quality
Trippy - Medium Performance requirement 2nd worst quality
Retro - Lowest performance requirement worst quality
Quality: Simple, lowest best for performance, medium is in the middle, high is the worst for performance. Lowest looks the worst, medium is in the middle, high looks the best.
Background: Off for better performance, otherwise on
Blood and Gore: Removes blood and gore effects. Off for very slightly better performance if needed, Otherwise On
Miner's Wobble: Shouldn't have any performance impact, just a little effect when mining a block. Keep On
Windy environment: Adds wind effects, off if performance really needed, other wise on




